---
title: "How I Became a Certified DevOps Engineer"
last_modified_at: 2022-01-22T16:20:02-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Post Formats
  - readability
  - standard
  - Devops
  - Book Review
---

DevOps is an area of IT that fascinates me because I am passionate about making life easier and reducing complications. I wanted a certificate to validate some of the skills that I have developed over time.

My first DevOps project was done on AWS. For my build engine, I used an EC2 instance to host the Jenkins server, GIT/GitHub for source control, Docker for my build images, and Kubernetes was used to manage my containers and build my deployment environment. This project, being my first project, was very enjoyable and opened my eyes to the possibilities that DevOps presents. My organization is currently integrating Azure DevOps into our deployment processes, so naturally I will eventually have to look into Azure DevOps.

Azure DevOps is extremely straight-forward. You don’t have to setup any servers (Jenkins servers are replaced by Azure pipelines) or install anything, especially if your deployments will be to Azure. I have a write-up on a book that I will recommend as a starting point https://usianej.github.io/ju_blog/blog/a-practical-gide-to-azure-devops/ , which is Practical Devops. This book introduced me to Azure Devops in a practical way, giving me a solid foundation to build upon. I watched the AZ400 DevOps exam prep path on pluralsight and I must commend John Savil and Chris Behrens for their excellent and in-depth lectures that gave not just the required knowledge for the exams, but for real-life scenarios.

I also practiced the continuous integration and deployment of different application types, which include .Net, .NetCore, .Vue, and Python. This was implemented using different scenarios. A big part of DevOps is monitoring, and for that, Azure application insight was used. For me, it was all about practice. I also carried out some labs using GitHub actions, which I think is on a direct path to becoming the number one CI tool in the world. I did not really do much IAC, which is a huge part of the devops culture. I intend to start some projects in the near future, focusing on Terraform and other infrastructure as code solutions.
For the exam, I scheduled a proctored exam on the Pearson Vue platform. It took me 7 days to prepare for the exam. I printed out the exam outline from the official Microsoft site and went through the topics to see if there were any that I wasn’t too familiar with and brushed them up. The exam is multiple choice. I wrote the exam in about an hour and scored 802. The pass mark for the exam is 700. For the exam, I really enjoy the scenario-based questions because they give real-life scenarios, and this is really helpful and reassuring as you are able to think through these problems and proffer solutions.

If you are looking to take the exam, just look for a good course and practice as much as you can. I would recommend Pluralsight. And remember, a failed build is your friend. Never get frustrated with it, because within a failed build lies the opportunity to learn.
